Building components with the Nooku Framework for a Joomla 3 CMS

By JS Webdesign

Our experiences with building a component for a Joomla cms with the nooku framework.

The first time we've build a component with Nooku was a few years ago when we've got the question if we could build a relational database for the businessclub of Wemeldinge in the south-west of the Netherlands, where our company is situated and where we are member of.

This database is used to capture the information of all the members and companies of the businessclub.
This data is used yearly to create a booklet where all the businesses in the village can be found along with touristinfo for the visitors of the vilage.
One of the main advantages of the Component was that the error-rate of the varios listings in the booklet dropped to almost zero.

One of the reasons we have made the decision to build this application on top of a nooku framework was that we needed an environment wich did not had the need for writing a large amount of code and we needed a versatile system where we could easily extend the application with new desired functions if we wanted to.

The version we've build in 2012 is still in use today. The benefits of this relational database appllication are that the data such as adresses, phonenumber, e-mailadresses and other info needed for creating the booklet yearly can be kept op-to-date the year round and the correct data is available when we need it.

Because 2 years ago version 2.5 of joomla was not 'invented' yet, we just created last week the 3.0 version of this app with very little work.

In the following years we've created a pretty amount of other components for lots of special purposes.

Some examples:
JS Cars, JSW Soccerclub, JSW Realestate and JSW Yachtclub

Building a component fast with Nooku
One of our clients sels holiday and other real-estate in a village a few miles from where we are situated.

Rich snippets
The 'new fashion' of the search-engine world is Rich-snippets, and we've build for this company a application that has the ability to easiliy manage the properties they have for sale and sends them at the frontend of the website with rich-snippets to the search-engine, increasing the pageviews significantly.

We have build this app in about “2 days”.

I think this takes weeks in another framework to do the same!

These sort of applications can easily be build with the Nooku framework if you have the need for one.

The way we are making use of the framework is that we have a version of the Framework wich meets the demands of the guys at the Joomla extention directory, so with some extra index.html files and so on, so that publishing a newly created component there doesn't gets rejected because of this.

We've borrowed some of the code of our components from the guys at Ohanah, but that's the beauty of open-source. Make something you want without “finding out the compleet wheel” yourself.


JSW CRM

Our latest creation, JSW CRM, we have created because we think that not every (small)company has the need for a full-blown CRM application, but only want to share the core information with the employees such as contactinfo, relations-info and appointments.

We have choosen to build the component for the latest version, and from january 2015 the new long supported version, Joomla 3.

Every employee that can log-in to the CRM, has the ability to consult the information in the CRM and can add his or her information to the CRM if they want to.
That information is then available for everyone in the CRM enviroment.

The emplye can only add or edit his or her own info in the CRM app. The administrator wich can log-in to the administrator-side of the CRM app, has acces to all the info in the CRM.

If you want to you can easily make information wich is stored in the CRM available for public use.

If for example you want a google-map on the website with relations and their locations, you can do that.

One of the thoughts behind JSW CRM is to make a application wich can easily be used by for example a club or small company for managing memberdata and boardinfo in the club or company website.
That way you can make use of the cloud-possbilities a easy way.

If, for example, you have a new boardmember in the board, the only thing you need tot do is give him a useraccount with the rights you want him to have.

Besides that it gives boardmembers a simple procedure for handing over some tasks from one boardmember to another because the information is stored in the cloud.

The JSW CRM component is written in a basic way: Which functionality do i need and what's the most efficient way to do it.
Our basic principle at JS Webdesign is the KIS principle:

Which stands for: Keep It Simple.

The results is easy usable applications for the enduser who has to 'work' with what you create every day.

And with a Nooku Framework you can build them!


Jos

JS Webdesign
